# A Deep Learning-Based Dataset to Predict Wildfire Spread from Remote Sensing Data: Integrating Landsat Data and Environmental Variables
Wildfires pose significant threats to ecosystems, communities, and economies and have shown a significant increase in frequency and intensity in recent years. Accurate wildfire spread prediction is critical for efficient management and mitigation strategies. Due to the limitations of current wildfire spread datasets, this study introduces a novel wildfire spread dataset for Alberta, Canada, covering wildfire events from 2001 to 2019. The dataset incorporates Landsat 7 (L7) and Landsat 8 (L8) data at 30-meter spatial resolution and daily environmental variables at 250-meter resolution, providing finer spatial and temporal detail than existing datasets. Integration of residual neural network (ResNet) and DeepLabV3 were used as a baseline for wildfire spread prediction based on the generated dataset, and its performance was evaluated using key metrics, such as precision, recall, F1-score (F1), and area under curve (AUC). Results indicate moderate success in identifying burned pixels with balanced precision and recall. The flexibility of the dataset's format also opens possibilities for applying advanced models, such as transformers, to enhance prediction capabilities further. This research advances wildfire spread prediction by addressing critical limitations in current datasets and providing a foundation for more sophisticated modeling approaches.

This repository contains the deep learning-based wildfire spread dataset material in Alberta, Canada, from 2001 to 2019. The dataset integrates Landsat imagery and environmental variables.
